# Python-Based-Home-Rental-Finder-Application

## Introduction
Welcome to the Python-Based Home Rental Finder project, an application designed to assist users in finding their perfect rental home in a new city. This tool aims to streamline the house-hunting process by aggregating information from multiple sources, such as nearby grocery stores, restaurants, and safety data, and providing top recommendations based on user preferences.

## Features
### Unified Platform: 
Access to information about apartments, grocery stores, restaurants, and neighborhood safety in one place.
### Time-Efficient: 
Reduces the time spent on searching for rental homes by providing curated top recommendations.
### Safety Insights: 
Incorporates crime data to ensure users can check the safety of the neighborhoods they are considering.

## Project Dependencies
Python 3.x
tkinter
json
httpx
pandas
numpy
parsel
warnings
selenium
bs4
csv
os
io
time
collections
seaborn
matplotlib
PIL (Pillow)
requests
re

## Installation
Ensure you have Python 3.x installed on your system.
Install the required Python modules using pip:

pip install -r requirements.txt
Make sure the following project-specific modules are present in your project directory:
zillow_data
apartment_scraper
recommendation_system
data_viz
CrimeSearch

## Running the Project
1. Execute the main.py Python script to run the project.
2. This is the only script you need to run, as other scripts are imported in the main file as libraries.
3. Interact with the User Interface following the on-screen instructions.

## Product Overview
The application provides users with an interactive platform for house-hunting. Users can search for rental properties by entering an area of interest. The application will display details about nearby services (grocery stores, restaurants, etc.), safety data, and recommend the top four apartments based on key factors.

## Revenue Model
The platform's revenue is generated by charging a small percentage fee on the total transaction value for successful property rentals or purchases facilitated through the platform.

## Market Analysis
The application targets US relocators, focusing on those moving to a new city and looking for a familiar neighborhood. It aims to address the user pain points of scattered information, time-consuming searches, and the potential risk of landlord fraud.

## Solution Approach & Timelines
The development approach involved data cleaning, integration, and the creation of a recommendation model that ranks apartments based on user preferences and key indicators. The project was developed over six weeks, with deployment on tkinter for the frontend user interface.

## Thank You
I appreciate your interest in the Python-Based Home Rental Finder project. For any questions or further information, please feel free to contact me.
